Okay, so we have a brand new slash command added
to Claude Code, which is likely preparing us for
when Claude Myphos releases. So it's /advisor.
So when you do /advisor, you can configure the
advisor tool and it should take you to something
like this. And essentially this is a tool that's
built into Claude Code for when it requires
stronger judgment about a particular problem.
Now you can see right now we only have Sonnet and
Opus. So if you're on Opus, ideally you want your
main model in Claude Code to be on Sonnet. So you
do /model and then pick Sonnet. And essentially
when you're coding with the Sonnet model and
it ends up getting stuck, then it would call
the advisor tool to ask Opus a question. This is
kind of similar to /model opusplan whereby Sonnet
is used all the time except for when you're in
planning mode, in which case Opus is used. So if
you were to combine the two together, you would
have a really good plan at the very beginning,
then it would switch over to Sonnet for the actual
execution. And if Sonnet ends up getting stuck
with something, then it would call the advisor
tool to ask Opus what the deal is here. Now
right now with /advisor, you can only see that
we have Opus 4.6 and Sonnet 4.6. So if you're
already on Opus and you're using Opus as advisor,
you'd probably not see much benefit to doing that
over using a subagent of sorts. And if you're
in Haiku, then you may want to use Sonnet 4.6.
Now what they will likely be adding here in the
future is like Myphos for their upcoming model,
because chances are since it's so expensive, we
won't be able to afford it most of the time. Until
like prices come down and stuff in the future.
So I imagine what many people will be doing in
Claude Code is sticking to Opus and then having
the advisor call Myphos with the entire like chat
history and log to help it work around like a
particularly hard problem. Now the way that it
works behind the scenes is that essentially the
tool description consults a stronger reviewer
who sees your full conversation transcript. There
are no parameters. When you call advisor(), your
entire history — task, every tool call and result,
your reasoning — is automatically forwarded. The
advisor sees exactly what you've done. Now, of
course, you can tell Claude Code to call this tool
when you're stuck, but it says it will be called
before any substantive work. So before writing,
before committing to an interpretation, before
building an assumption. And it's also called when
the model believes the task is complete. So it's
told to first make deliverable durable first and
then actually call the advisor. When stuck,
errors recurring, approaches not converging,
results don't fit, or when considering a change
of approach. Now guidance on frequency says,
on tasks longer than a few steps, call it at
least once before committing to an approach,
and once declaring done. On short reactive tasks,
skip it. Which means that if you ask Claude Code
to change some colors around, then it will not
call the advisor because it's too simple of a
task. Now this is a part that's interesting. So
how to weigh the advice. Give it serious weight,
as you would expect. And if the empirical results
contradict advisor advice, surface the conflict
with another advisor call rather than silently
switching. So I find this part particularly
interesting. I'd like to see that in action.
And now it's like a passing self-test is not
evidence that the advice is wrong. Now this is a
summary of the tool description. If you want to
read the full one, then it will be down below in
the pinned comment. Now let's see this in action.
If I go to previous session and this is some bug
that Claude Code found with the billing logic,
if I wanted to call the advisor, I could either
like tell it directly or Claude Code during the
execution may realize that it needs to call
the advisor. So we already have it set over
here with Opus. And I will just say, hey, can
you call the advisor to check that this will
be the solution here? And then pressing enter, it
now says advising using Opus 4.6. And the advisor
basically flagged two things over here that
we would want our Sonnet model to consider.
Now it seems that there are some things
to bear in mind when doing this. Firstly,
it seems that the advisor like can't actually
consult extra files on your machine. The entire
chat history is being passed to the advisor. And
then that result is being passed back into your
session. So as they showed on Twitter, this is
what it looks like. You have the main executor
being Sonnet. You have the shared context that
has been accumulated so far in the history,
which is a conversation, tools, and so forth. And
then the executor can call the advisor on demand.
That advisor would send feedback and that would
be added to shared context, which likely means
that any future advisor can see any previous
advice that previous advisors have given. Now,
when it comes to benchmarking, they found that
using this approach is slightly cheaper if you
were paying for raw API tokens, but it would mean
that it consumes less usage limits on your Claude
Code plan as well. And you also do get slightly
better performance on some of these benchmarks.
Now I will personally not be using this that much
because I use Opus all the time and I don't see
any benefit in getting another Opus advisor with
the same chat history so far to give advice. I'd
rather get advice from a subagent that has an
independent context. But I would see myself
using this in the future whereby if Myphos is
released, basically swapping this all around,
I would have the main executor being Opus because
it's still a very capable model. And then getting
advice from Myphos instead. And this is probably
one of the ways they're planning on making Myphos
accessible to us once it is released, because
apparently it will be really expensive. Now, if
you do like this kind of stuff, then do subscribe
to the channel because I do make the most
comprehensive Claude Code videos here on YouTube.
And if you want to stay ahead of the curve,
then I also have a Claude Code newsletter whereby
I share some of my own strategies and techniques
like on a regular basis. Signing up will give
you access to some free videos in my masterclass
that you may find helpful as well. There will
be a link down below if you are interested.